python: async HTTP transport v2 (#3812)
OpenLineage/OpenLineage: website/docs/client/python.md

## Built-in Transport Types

### HTTP Transport

> The HTTP transport provides synchronous, blocking event emission using [httpx](https://www.python-httpx.org/). This is the default transport implementation suitable for most use cases where immediate event delivery and error handling are preferred.

Reviewer: Well, sync http transport still uses `requests`

Author: Removed that part, what we use should be just an implementation detail.

</Tabs>

### Async HTTP Transport

The Async HTTP transport provides high-performance, non-blocking event emission with advanced queuing and ordering guarantees. Use this transport when you need high throughput or want to avoid blocking your application on lineage event delivery.

#### Configuration

> - `type` - string, must be `"openlineage.client.transport.async_http.AsyncHttpTransport"` or use direct instantiation. Required.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we have an alias `async_http`?

  - `allowed_methods` - a set of HTTP methods that we should retry on, default is `["HEAD", "POST"]`.

#### Behavior

Events are processed asynchronously with the following features:

- **Event Ordering Guarantees**: START events are sent before their corresponding COMPLETE, FAIL, or ABORT events
- **High Throughput**: Non-blocking event emission with configurable concurrent processing
- **Queue Management**: Bounded queue prevents memory exhaustion with configurable size
- **Advanced Error Handling**: Retry logic with exponential backoff for network and server errors
- **Event Tracking**: Real-time statistics on pending, successful, and failed events

#### Event Flow

1. Events are queued for processing (START events immediately, completion events wait if their START is pending)
2. Worker thread processes events using configurable parallelism
3. Successful START events trigger release of pending completion events
4. Event statistics are tracked and available via `get_stats()`

#### Additional Methods

- `wait_for_completion(timeout)` - Wait for all events to be processed
- `get_stats()` - Get processing statistics (`{"pending": 0, "success": 10, "failed": 0}`)

> - `shutdown(wait, timeout)` - Graceful shutdown with optional wait

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `shutdown(timeout: float)` - Graceful shutdown, wait untill pending events are send
- `close()` - Shutdown immediately and skip pending events
```

</Tabs>

### Async HTTP Transport

The Async HTTP transport provides high-performance, non-blocking event emission with advanced queuing and ordering guarantees. Use this transport when you need high throughput or want to avoid blocking your application on lineage event delivery.

#### Configuration

- `type` - string, must be `"async_http"` or use direct instantiation. Required.
- `url` - string, base url for HTTP requests. Required.
- `endpoint` - string specifying the endpoint to which events are sent, appended to `url`. Optional, default: `api/v1/lineage`.
- `timeout` - float specifying timeout (in seconds) value used while connecting to server. Optional, default: `5`.
- `verify` - boolean specifying whether the client should verify TLS certificates from the backend. Optional, default: `true`.
- `auth` - dictionary specifying authentication options. Optional, by default no authorization is used. If set, requires the `type` property.
  - `type` - string specifying the "api_key" or the fully qualified class name of your TokenProvider. Required if `auth` is provided.
  - `apiKey` - string setting the Authentication HTTP header as the Bearer. Required if `type` is `api_key`.

> - `compression` - string, name of algorithm used by HTTP client to compress request body. Optional, default value `null`, allowed values: `gzip`. Added in v1.13.0.

Author: Done

- `custom_headers` - dictionary of additional headers to be sent with each request. Optional, default: `{}`.

> - `max_queue_size` - integer specifying maximum events in processing queue. Optional, default: `1000000`.

Author: Done

  - `total` - total number of retries to be attempted. Default is `5`.
  - `read` - number of retries to be attempted on read errors. Default is `5`.
  - `connect` - number of retries to be attempted on connection errors. Default is `5`.
  - `backoff_factor` - a backoff factor to apply between attempts after the second try, default is `0.3`.
  - `status_forcelist` - a set of integer HTTP status codes that we should force a retry on, default is `[500, 502, 503, 504]`.
  - `allowed_methods` - a set of HTTP methods that we should retry on, default is `["HEAD", "POST"]`.

#### Behavior

Events are processed asynchronously with the following features:

- **Event Ordering Guarantees**: START events are sent before their corresponding COMPLETE, FAIL, or ABORT events
- **High Throughput**: Non-blocking event emission with configurable concurrent processing
- **Queue Management**: Bounded queue prevents memory exhaustion with configurable size
- **Advanced Error Handling**: Retry logic with exponential backoff for network and server errors
- **Event Tracking**: Real-time statistics on pending, successful, and failed events

#### Event Flow

> 1. Events are queued for processing (START events immediately, completion events wait if their START is pending)

Author: Done
